# Heart-Failure-Model

Introduction to Data Science Algorithms Final that covers data cleaning, EDA, and machine learning models.

For my project, I aim to analyze a dataset on heart failure that has medical records of 299 patients. The 'heart_faliure.csv' dataset consists of 13 distinct clinical features, including a patient's age, blood related attributes, various medical conditions, and a follow up time period from the amount of time the patient spent out of the hospital. The primary objective of my project is to investigate the factors associated with heart failure deaths by analyzing the dataset, aiming to determine the likelihood of a patient experiencing a heart failure related death. Given that my project's focus is to predict patient mortality based on the available clinical data, my analysis will include classification methods commonly used for binary outcomes, as well as a logistic regression model which is also good for binary outcomes. Throughout my project, my aim is to uncover valuable insights into the risk factors linked to heart failure related deaths. By identifying patients at higher risk, this analysis could potentially facilitate early interventions, leading to improved patient care and hopefully being able to catch the chance of death earlier to protect against it, in order to save lives. The data set was found on one of the provided websites on the project guide html, which I used the UCI ML Data Repository. The specific data set was collected in a an experiment by Davide Chicco and Giuseppe Jurman where they used Machine learning to predict the survival of patients with heart failure from only serum creatinine and ejection fraction.
